Now let's see what else can we fetch at once using eloquent.
So for example take a look at the show action inside the post controller and the way we fetch the blog
post model together with some relations so you can see that we are fetching a blog post together with
tags with the user that created this blog post but the problem is that we fetch comments but comments
also have an out or who created this blog post and this isn't fetched at once.
So whenever we iterate over a list of comments in the show template then the user of well the outer
of the comments is actually being fetched from the database.
So this is that template.
And at the bottom when we started reading the name of the user who added a comment we aren't fetching
this at once we're using with method and then it causes it to read that user from the database.
So to see that let's first run peach bee artisan D.B. seed this will refresh our database and also we'll
clear all the potential cache for the blog posts so confirm with yes and do everything as usual
so we have recreated the database.
Now let's refresh and go to the first blog post.
So now you can see that seven queries are made.
So this is always made while those queries are always made when there is no cached blog post.
Now let's refresh but still you see that we have free queries and actually they are made for the comments
that are here.
Now you can see where those queries are made.
So the first one on the top is made by the eloquent user provider which means it is being made full
fledged a user name that we are showing on the header.
But those two remaining queries are made inside the view posts that show.
So they are directly made from the template and they are marching with the numbers number of comments
that we have on this blog post.
So if we will have like hundred comments this would cause it to make hundred queries.
So what we will do right now is we will fetch nested relationships or I would say deeply nested relationships
because here we are fetching a blog post with comments with tags and with the user relationship.
But what you can also do is you can use with to also fetch user of the comments in relation so you can
say with comments that user.
Now what you see here is that dot notation which denotes unless that relationship.
So comments is our relationship of the blog post.
We are also fetching it here.
But when you will also use dot this means that now that is our relationship of the previous relationship.
So basically we are also fetching not only comments but the comments and the user relationship of the
comment itself so let's save the changes and visit a different blog post that wasn't cached.
So at first you will see quite a lot of queries but this time you can see five queries not seven as
we've seen initially but when you refresh there is only one query made and it is actually made for the
user name of the user that we display at the header.
So we can also write it differently because since we want to fetch all these relationships we do not
really have to use with separately you can just put them into one with method call and separate them
as argument arguments to this with method.
So that's do common stock tax user.
And finally comments.
User.
So now we don't need this and save the changes.
So now let's go to the first blog post.
So the one that wasn't cashed yet.
So we see six queries.
And when you refresh there is only one query so everything was fetched at once and then it was cached
under the blog post with the idea cache key.
Now let's take a look at another example.
You might remember that we have other tags but when you click attack you see older blog posts for a
particular tag.
So first let's see on our main page on the blog posts page that there are only four queries made to
display.
All do those blog posts together with the outer name and the tags.
Now if you click one of the tags like science you see that actually now there is forty nine queries
and there are plenty queries for fetching tags and queries for fetching the user.
Now this is because how we created our query in this new post stock controller so the index action on
the post controller looks like this.
So we are fetching latest blog posts but we are also using with count to fetch the count of the comments.
Then we use with user to fetch the user relation.
And finally with tags to fetch the tax relation yet we did that differently on the post that controller
here we fetched everything using simple blog posts attribute.
So what we should do is we should use the same code for fetching blog posts on those two controllers
but instead of using blog post model since we have a tag what we can do is we can relate to that relation
which is blog posts and now we can use all the methods that we have used on the post controller so we
can chain all those methods.
So let's do that.
So we fetch latest with count of the comments with user with tax.
And finally we have to call get to actually execute this query.
Now let's say the changes
and now you see that the amount of queries were reduced.
So now we only have five queries if you will go to a different tack.
This also doesn't change.
So there are only five queries made together.
And one of them is for the user name that we display on the top of the page.
So the important thing and the lesson learned is to always know what is actually happening.
So you need to take that nothing is just happening by accident that you accidentally don't make much
more queries than you actually should.
So you should always watch what queries your application is actually making.
And tools like the larval debug bar are just a great tool that you should use when developing your application
to see what actually is happening because it is easy to forget about something or then make a mistake
and accidentally accidentally make your application much slower than it should be and eager loading
is usually usually much better choice.